.TH BPM  "2014-1-4" "" "gnuplot(1)"

.SH NAME
BPM \- Small command-line tool to store data from Beurer BM58 Blood Pressure Monitor

..SH SYNOPSIS
.B bpm
.RI [ commands ]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page explains the \fBBPM\fP program. The \fBBPM\fP program retrieve, store and output 
blood pressure measurements from a Beurer BM56 Blood Pressure Monitor.
(Any device based on  Andon Blood Pressure Meter KD001 should work).

Be default these devices can only store up to 60 data points.
This tool is written to extend that and allow the data to be used by 3rd party programs like gnuplot.
It outputs the stored points in different formats like txt and csv, and if requested, filter multiple measurements taken at the same time. 


.SH COMMANDS
Multiple commands can be specified in one go, they are handled in order.

.IP \fBimport\fP
Import data from the Blood Pressure Monitor into the local database.

.IP \fBlist\fP
List all the logged data points.

.IP \fBcsv\fP
Output the logged data points in Comma Separated Value format.

.IP \fBtxt\fP
Output the logged data points in simple text format.
This format can be used directly in gnuplot.

.IP \fBavg\fP
Display average Systolic and Diastolic preasure.

.IP \fBfilter\fP
Measurements taken within 10 minutes of each other are averaged.




.SH EXAMPLES

.B bpm import filter csv

Imports the latest samples from the Blood Pressure Monitor and output a filtered comma separated value list.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

BPM obeys the following environment variables:

.IP \fBBPM_PATH\fP
The full path to the database file.
.br
.I Default
$(HOME)/.bpm.sqlite3

.IP \fBBPM_DEVICE\fP
The device node pointing to the serial device of the Bloop Pressure Monitor
.br
.I Default
/dev/ttyUSB0


.SH SUPPORTED DEVICES

The following device(s) are known to work:

.B Beurer medical BM58


.SH BUGS

Please report bugs on the GITHUB issues page: https://github.com/DaveDavenport/bpm

.SH NOTES

The program is available as-is. It is not a medical-grade program and should not be used for this purpose.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
